So now that I've told you
all the bad things and all
the limitations
with Java futures,
let's start our
discussion to see
how Java is completable futures
and the completable futures
framework will fix these
particular problems.
So what we're going to
talk about in this part
of the lesson is to
show, at a high level,
how the completable
futures framework overcomes
the limitations
with Java futures.
Now, I realize we haven't
talked at length about the Java
computable futures framework
to really understand everything
we're going to cover
in detail, but I just
want to give you kind
of a teaser for what
we'll be talking about through
the rest of this course.
So the compatible
futures framework
is intentionally designed
to overcome the limitations
with Java futures.
Here are some of the
things that are easy to do
or can be done with
completable futures
that either are
hard to do or can't
be done with Java futures.
One thing you can do is you can
complete a completable future
explicitly.
So here's a simple
example, which
we'll look at in
more detail later,
where we create a
completable future--
don't give it anything to do.
We then spawn a thread.
And then in that
thread, we do some work
and we say, future.complete
to provide a result.
Let's assume that that result
came from the processing that
was done in that thread.
So we create a
thread and start it.
It does some computation.
At some point, that future
is explicitly completed,
and that means that anybody
who's called the future.join
method--
which is kind of like
get, but cooler--
will end up getting the result
when the future is explicitly
completed.
So that's something you really
can't do with regular futures
without using other
mechanisms like futureTask.
Some other things you can
do with completable futures
that you can't do
it all with futures
is you can chain them
together so that you can
have stages where one method--
one dependent action--
is called back
when a previous stage finishes
running asynchronously.
So here's a simple example that
we will also take a closer look
at later, where we start up
the asynchronous reduction
of a fraction--
like a BigFraction--
get back a completable future.
When that's finished, we then
apply a BigFraction method
to convert the reduced
fraction to a mixed string.
And then when that's
done, we go ahead
and accept that reduced
BigFraction-- that mixed
BigFraction, a proper fraction.
We're going to go
ahead and print it out
to the standard output.
And the action of
each of these stages
will be triggered when the
future from the previous stage
completes-- when the completable
completes after it's done
running asynchronously.
And this is what's often known
as a fluent interface style.
And the cool thing
about this is it
allows you to write
asynchronous code that
looks very much like
synchronous code
because it looks like you
say, run this operation,
then apply this thing,
then accept that thing.
It's almost like
you're just going
in lockstep synchronicity.
But in fact, this is all
taking place asynchronously.
So it's much more efficient,
much more responsive, much more
elastic, but pretty much equally
easy to program as anything
that uses fluent interfaces.
So that's a really cool feature.
Yet another thing
you can do is you
can create a collection
of completable futures
that can be
triggered reactively.
So what we're doing here--
and we'll look at this example
in a lot more detail
later as well--
we're going to go
ahead and generate
a bunch of BigFractions.
We're going to reduce and
multiply those BigFractions.
So we'll have lots
and lots of operations
running asynchronously.
Let's say we have 1,000
BigFractions that we're
operating on, and we're
reducing, and multiplying them
all in the background threads.
And then we can collect
them all together
to a single, completable
future that will only
trigger when that
large collection
of asynchronous
operations finishes.
And when that all
finishes, we can then
go ahead and print the results
after everything has been done.
This approach is
particularly cool
because it's one of
our first examples
of really demonstrating
the value of combining
completable futures with
Java sequential streams.
So you'll see here we're
using stream operations
to generate data.
We're then going to go
ahead and kind of limit
the amount of data
that's generated.
We're going to apply
asynchronous operations
to reduce and multiply
the fractions,
and then we're going to
use the collect terminal
operation and the
FuturesCollector collector
class in order to be able
to create a single future--
signal completable future--
that waits for everything else
will be done.
So this is really
cool because we
use streams to guide the
overall flow of the program
in a convenient
and intuitive way,
but we use completable
futures to run everything
asynchronously.
So that really demonstrates
some of the power
of completable futures and how
it fixes all those limitations
with the more traditional,
conventional futures in Java.